reference/apostrophe-pieces/index.md, before:

---
title: "apostrophe-pieces (module)"
children:
  - server-apostrophe-pieces-cursor
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-manager-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-editor-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-manager
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-create-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-chooser
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-chooser-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-relationship-editor
---
## Inherits from: [apostrophe-module](../apostrophe-module/index.html)

## Methods
### pushAssets(*req*, *criteria*, *projection*) *[browser]*

### pushCreateSingleton(*req*, *criteria*, *projection*) *[browser]*

### requirePiece(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
middleware for JSON API routes that expect the ID of
an existing piece at req.body._id, with editing privileges
### requireEditor(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
User must have some editing privileges for this type
### list(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### insert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### update(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### trash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### rescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### convert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### findIfContextual(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterConvert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeCreate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeSave(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterCreate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterSave(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeList(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterList(*req*, *results*, *callback*) *[api]*

### apiResponse(*res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### insertResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### updateResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### retrieveResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### listResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### trashResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### rescueResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### composeSchema() *[api]*

### composeFilters() *[api]*

### composeColumns() *[api]*

### searchDetermineTypes(*types*) *[api]*
Enable inclusion of this type in sitewide search results
## API Routes
### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/insert

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/retrieve

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/list

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/update

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/publish

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/manage

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/chooser

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/editor

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/create

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/trash
TODO consider the following:
not using requirePiece for trash route because docs.trash already does
query to get the piece. it would be nice if you could pass a piece in
place of an id or criteria object so you can manipulate the object
earlier without performing additional queries
Another option here would be to hook into the docsBeforeTrash and
docsAfterTrash callAlls that take place in the trash method of docs
### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/route

Commit message:

Fixed bug that prevented merge operations from working properly and showing all methods / filters / etc.

reference/apostrophe-pieces/index.md, after:

---
title: "apostrophe-pieces (module)"
children:
  - server-apostrophe-pieces-cursor
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-manager-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-editor-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-manager
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-create-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-chooser
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-chooser-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-relationship-editor
---
## Inherits from: [apostrophe-module](../apostrophe-module/index.html)

## Methods
### createRoutes() *[routes]*

### find(*req*, *criteria*, *projection*) *[api]*
Returns a cursor for use in finding docs. See cursor.js for chainable
filters, and also yielders that actually deliver the docs to you
### findForEditing(*req*, *criteria*, *projection*) *[api]*
Returns a cursor that finds docs the current user can edit. Unlike
find(), this cursor defaults to including unpublished docs. Subclasses
of apostrophe-pieces often extend this to remove more default filters
### requirePiece(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
middleware for JSON API routes that expect the ID of
an existing piece at req.body._id, with editing privileges
### requireEditor(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
User must have some editing privileges for this type
### list(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### insert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### update(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### trash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### rescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### convert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### findIfContextual(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterConvert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeCreate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeSave(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterCreate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterSave(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### beforeList(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterList(*req*, *results*, *callback*) *[api]*

### apiResponse(*res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### insertResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### updateResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### retrieveResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### listResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### trashResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### rescueResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### composeSchema() *[api]*

### composeFilters() *[api]*

### composeColumns() *[api]*

### searchDetermineTypes(*types*) *[api]*
Enable inclusion of this type in sitewide search results
### pushAssets() *[browser]*

### pushCreateSingleton() *[browser]*

## API Routes
### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/insert

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/retrieve

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/list

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/update

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/publish

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/manage

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/chooser

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/editor

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/create

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/trash
TODO consider the following:
not using requirePiece for trash route because docs.trash already does
query to get the piece. it would be nice if you could pass a piece in
place of an id or criteria object so you can manipulate the object
earlier without performing additional queries
Another option here would be to hook into the docsBeforeTrash and
docsAfterTrash callAlls that take place in the trash method of docs
### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/route
