docs/modules/apostrophe-pieces/index.md, before:

---
title: "apostrophe-pieces (module)"
layout: reference
module: true
namespaces:
  server: true
  browser: true
children:
  - server-apostrophe-pieces-cursor
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-manager-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-editor-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-chooser
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-relationship-editor
---
## Inherits from: [apostrophe-doc-type-manager](../apostrophe-doc-type-manager/index.html)
`apostrophe-pieces` provides a "base class" you can extend to create new content
types for your project. Just use the `addFields` option to create a schema and
you'll get a user interface for managing your content for free. Add in the
`apostrophe-pieces-pages` module to display an index page and permalink pages
for your pieces, and use `apostrophe-pieces-widgets` to allow them to be sprinkled
into pages all over the site. To learn more, see:

[Reusable content with pieces](http://unstable.apostrophenow.org/tutorials/getting-started/reusable-content-with-pieces.html)


## Methods
### addTrashPrefixFields(*fields*) *[api]*

### findForEditing(*req*, *criteria*, *projection*) *[api]*
Returns a cursor that finds docs the current user can edit. Unlike
find(), this cursor defaults to including unpublished docs. Subclasses
of apostrophe-pieces often extend this to remove more default filters
### requirePiece(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
middleware for JSON API routes that expect the ID of
an existing piece at req.body._id, with editing privileges
### requirePieceEditorView(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
middleware for JSON API routes that expect the ID of
an existing piece at req.body._id, with privileges sufficient
to create items of this type and also to view this particular
piece (e.g. good enough to add a crop to an image)
### requireEditor(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
User must have some editing privileges for this type
### list(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### insert(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Insert a piece. Also invokes the `beforeInsert`, `beforeSave`, `afterInsert` and
`afterSave` methods of this module.

You may omit the `options` argument completely.

If `options.permissions` is explicitly set to `false`, permissions are
not checked. Otherwise the user must have the appropriate permissions to
insert the piece.
### update(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Update a piece. Also invokes the `beforeUpdate`, `beforeSave`, `afterUpdate` and
`afterSave` methods of this module.

You may omit the `options` argument completely.

If `options.permissions` is explicitly set to `false`, permissions are
not checked. Otherwise the user must have the appropriate permissions to
insert the piece.
### trash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Move a piece to the trash by id.
### rescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Rescue a piece from the trash by id.
### convert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
Convert the data supplied in `req.body` via the schema and
update the piece object accordingly.
### afterConvert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked after apos.schemas.convert by the `insert` and
`update` routes
### beforeInsert(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### beforeSave(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert` and `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterInsert(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterSave(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert` and `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### beforeUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### beforeTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.trash`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.trash`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### deduplicateTrash(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
After moving pieces to the trash, prefix any fields that have
unique indexes so that other pieces are allowed to reuse
those usernames, email addresses, etc.
### beforeRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### deduplicateRescue(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
When rescuing pieces from the trash, attempt to un-prefix any fields
that have unique indexes. However, if we then find it's been taken
in the meanwhile, leave the prefix in place and leave it up to
the user to resolve the issue.
### beforeList(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterList(*req*, *results*, *callback*) *[api]*

### apiResponse(*res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### insertResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### updateResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### retrieveResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### listResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### trashResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### rescueResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### composeFilters() *[api]*

### composeColumns() *[api]*

### searchDetermineTypes(*types*) *[api]*
Enable inclusion of this type in sitewide search results
### isAdminOnly() *[api]*

### addPermissions() *[api]*

### addToAdminBar() *[api]*

### addUrls(*req*, *pieces*, *callback*) *[api]*
Add `._url` properties to the given pieces, if possible.
The default implementation does nothing, however
[apostrophe-pieces-pages](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html) will
call `setAddUrls` to point to [its own `addUrlsToPieces` method](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html#addUrlsToPieces).
### setAddUrls(*fn*) *[api]*
Called by [apostrophe-pieces-pages](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html) to
replace the default `addUrls` method with one that assigns `._url`
properties to pieces based on the most suitable pages of that type.
See [the `addUrlsToPieces` method of `apostrophe-pieces-pages`](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html#addUrlsToPieces).
### createRoutes() *[routes]*

### pushAssets() *[browser]*

### pushDefineSingleton() *[browser]*

### getCreateSingletonOptions(*req*) *[browser]*

## API Routes
### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/insert

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/retrieve

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/list

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/update

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/publish

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/manager-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/chooser-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/editor-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/create-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/trash

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/rescue

Commit message:

custom batch operations documentation updated autogenerated docs

docs/modules/apostrophe-pieces/index.md, after:

---
title: "apostrophe-pieces (module)"
layout: reference
module: true
namespaces:
  server: true
  browser: true
children:
  - server-apostrophe-pieces-cursor
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-manager-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-editor-modal
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-chooser
  - browser-apostrophe-pieces-relationship-editor
---
## Inherits from: [apostrophe-doc-type-manager](../apostrophe-doc-type-manager/index.html)
`apostrophe-pieces` provides a "base class" you can extend to create new content
types for your project. Just use the `addFields` option to create a schema and
you'll get a user interface for managing your content for free. Add in the
`apostrophe-pieces-pages` module to display an index page and permalink pages
for your pieces, and use `apostrophe-pieces-widgets` to allow them to be sprinkled
into pages all over the site. To learn more, see:

[Reusable content with pieces](http://unstable.apostrophenow.org/tutorials/getting-started/reusable-content-with-pieces.html)


## Methods
### addTrashPrefixFields(*fields*) *[api]*

### findForEditing(*req*, *criteria*, *projection*) *[api]*
Returns a cursor that finds docs the current user can edit. Unlike
find(), this cursor defaults to including unpublished docs. Subclasses
of apostrophe-pieces often extend this to remove more default filters
### requirePiece(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
middleware for JSON API routes that expect the ID of
an existing piece at req.body._id, with editing privileges
### requirePieceEditorView(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
middleware for JSON API routes that expect the ID of
an existing piece at req.body._id, with privileges sufficient
to create items of this type and also to view this particular
piece (e.g. good enough to add a crop to an image)
### requireEditor(*req*, *res*, *next*) *[api]*
User must have some editing privileges for this type
### list(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### insert(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Insert a piece. Also invokes the `beforeInsert`, `beforeSave`, `afterInsert` and
`afterSave` methods of this module.

You may omit the `options` argument completely.

If `options.permissions` is explicitly set to `false`, permissions are
not checked. Otherwise the user must have the appropriate permissions to
insert the piece.
### update(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Update a piece. Also invokes the `beforeUpdate`, `beforeSave`, `afterUpdate` and
`afterSave` methods of this module.

You may omit the `options` argument completely.

If `options.permissions` is explicitly set to `false`, permissions are
not checked. Otherwise the user must have the appropriate permissions to
insert the piece.
### trash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Move a piece to the trash by id.
### rescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Rescue a piece from the trash by id.
### convert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
Convert the data supplied in `req.body` via the schema and
update the piece object accordingly.
### afterConvert(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked after apos.schemas.convert by the `insert` and
`update` routes
### beforeInsert(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### beforeSave(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert` and `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterInsert(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterSave(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.insert` and `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### beforeUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterUpdate(*req*, *piece*, *options*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.update`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### beforeTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.trash`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### afterTrash(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*
Invoked by `self.trash`. Does nothing by default; convenient extension point
### deduplicateTrash(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
After moving pieces to the trash, prefix any fields that have
unique indexes so that other pieces are allowed to reuse
those usernames, email addresses, etc.
### beforeRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterRescue(*req*, *id*, *callback*) *[api]*

### deduplicateRescue(*req*, *piece*, *callback*) *[api]*
When rescuing pieces from the trash, attempt to un-prefix any fields
that have unique indexes. However, if we then find it's been taken
in the meanwhile, leave the prefix in place and leave it up to
the user to resolve the issue.
### beforeList(*req*, *filters*, *callback*) *[api]*

### afterList(*req*, *results*, *callback*) *[api]*

### apiResponse(*res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### insertResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### updateResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### retrieveResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### listResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### trashResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### rescueResponse(*req*, *res*, *err*, *data*) *[api]*

### composeFilters() *[api]*

### composeColumns() *[api]*

### searchDetermineTypes(*types*) *[api]*
Enable inclusion of this type in sitewide search results
### isAdminOnly() *[api]*

### addPermissions() *[api]*

### addToAdminBar() *[api]*

### addUrls(*req*, *pieces*, *callback*) *[api]*
Add `._url` properties to the given pieces, if possible.
The default implementation does nothing, however
[apostrophe-pieces-pages](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html) will
call `setAddUrls` to point to [its own `addUrlsToPieces` method](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html#addUrlsToPieces).
### setAddUrls(*fn*) *[api]*
Called by [apostrophe-pieces-pages](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html) to
replace the default `addUrls` method with one that assigns `._url`
properties to pieces based on the most suitable pages of that type.
See [the `addUrlsToPieces` method of `apostrophe-pieces-pages`](../apostrophe-pieces-pages/index.html#addUrlsToPieces).
### composeBatchOperations() *[api]*

### batchSimpleRoute(*req*, *name*, *change*) *[api]*
Implements a simple batch operation like publish or unpublish.
Pass `req`, the `name` of a configurated batch operation, and
and a function that accepts (req, piece, data, callback),
performs the modification on that one piece (including calling
`update` if appropriate), and invokes its callback.

`data` is an object containing any schema fields specified
for the batch operation. If there is no schema it will be
an empty object.

Replies to the request with { status: 'ok', data: piece }
on success. If `ids` rather than `_id` were specified,
`data` is an empty object.

To avoid RAM issues with very large selections and ensure that
lifecycle callbacks like beforeUpdate, etc. are invoked, the current
implementation processes the pieces in series.
### createRoutes() *[routes]*

### pushAssets() *[browser]*

### pushDefineSingleton() *[browser]*

### getCreateSingletonOptions(*req*) *[browser]*

## API Routes
### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/insert

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/retrieve

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/list

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/update

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/publish

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/unpublish

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/tag

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/untag

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/manager-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/chooser-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/editor-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/create-modal

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/trash

### POST /modules/apostrophe-pieces/rescue
