HOW_TO_UPDATE_THE_DOCUMENTATION.md, before:

Apostrophe Documentation
========================

This project contains [the documentation site](https://docs.apostrophecms.org/apostrophe/) for [Apostrophe](http://apostrophecms.org/).

You don't need to read this page just to read the documentation! [Read the actual documentation here.](https://docs.apostrophecms.org/apostrophe) This page is about *contributing* to the documentation.

Building the docs
-----------------

### 1. Setup

Clone the repo.

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/punkave/apostrophe-documentation.git
$ cd apostrophe-documentation
```

Next, install the dependencies.

```
./install
```

### 2. Updating the `modules/` docs from the source code

The reference docs for the modules are based on comments inline in the code, which makes writing reference documentation easy and encourages us to do so. Comments above the module's source go into the `README.md` for the module's folder; comments above each method document that method. Helpers, routes and regular methods (`self.something = function()...`) are all automatically discovered. Frontend moog classes and methods, too.

Here's how to generate the docs:

> First make sure you are not running a live Apostrophe site locally on port 3000.

```
./generate
```

NOTE: this will `npm update` the version of `apostrophe` being documented first, so the docs are always for the **latest published release**.

Now commit the changes, as you would if you had made them manually.

### 3. Making edits to non `modules/` docs
Right now we're making all edits by hand and committing them to master. Currently we are *not* making writes from Gitbook's editor back to the repo. This has resulted in the loss of pages, restructed navigation, etc. Making sure the Gitbook editor plays nicely with our repo's structure needs it's own testing and effort.

### 4. Deploying

After generation or manual edits to the documentation, simply commit the changes to `apostrophe-documentation#master` and check http://docs.apostrophecms.org for the changes. Give Gitbook a minute or so to rebuild the site.

*Note on internal doc links* When creating links in the body of a documentation page that point to another page of documentation, make sure the link is relative and pointing to the `.md` extension. After committing, check the gitbook build to make sure it is correctly linking to the gitbook page and not a file in the `apostrophe-documentation` github repo

Commit message:

* tutorial on creating nunjucks helper functions * docs on how to add new tutorials to the docs * deleted stray file

HOW_TO_UPDATE_THE_DOCUMENTATION.md, after:

Apostrophe Documentation
========================

This project contains [the documentation site](https://docs.apostrophecms.org/apostrophe/) for [Apostrophe](http://apostrophecms.org/).

You don't need to read this page just to read the documentation! [Read the actual documentation here.](https://docs.apostrophecms.org/apostrophe) This page is about *contributing* to the documentation.

Building the docs
-----------------

### 1. Setup

Clone the repo.

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/punkave/apostrophe-documentation.git
$ cd apostrophe-documentation
```

Next, install the dependencies.

```
./install
```

### 2. Updating the `modules/` docs from the source code

The reference docs for the modules are based on comments inline in the code, which makes writing reference documentation easy and encourages us to do so. Comments above the module's source go into the `README.md` for the module's folder; comments above each method document that method. Helpers, routes and regular methods (`self.something = function()...`) are all automatically discovered. Frontend moog classes and methods, too.

Here's how to generate the docs:

> First make sure you are not running a live Apostrophe site locally on port 3000.

```
./generate
```

NOTE: this will `npm update` the version of `apostrophe` being documented first, so the docs are always for the **latest published release**.

Now commit the changes, as you would if you had made them manually.

### 3. Making edits to non `modules/` docs

Right now we're making all edits by hand and committing them to master. Currently we are *not* making writes from Gitbook's editor back to the repo. This has resulted in the loss of pages, restructed navigation, etc. Making sure the Gitbook editor plays nicely with our repo's structure needs it's own testing and effort.

**If you add a new tutorial,** you will need to edit `SUMMARY.md` in the root of the project to add it to the tree structure. Otherwise it will not be discoverable in the navigation.

### 4. Deploying

After generation or manual edits to the documentation, simply commit the changes to `apostrophe-documentation#master` and check http://docs.apostrophecms.org for the changes. Give Gitbook a minute or so to rebuild the site.

*Note on internal doc links* When creating links in the body of a documentation page that point to another page of documentation, make sure the link is relative and pointing to the `.md` extension. After committing, check the gitbook build to make sure it is correctly linking to the gitbook page and not a file in the `apostrophe-documentation` github repo
