reference/apostrophe-widgets/index.md, before:

---
title: "apostrophe-widgets (module)"
layout: module
children:
  - browser-apostrophe-widgets
  - browser-apostrophe-widgets-editor
---
## Inherits from: [apostrophe-module](../apostrophe-module/index.html)
The base class for all modules that implement a widget, such as
[apostrophe-rich-text-widgets](../apostrophe-rich-text-widgets/index.html),
[apostrophe-pieces-widgets](../apostrophe-pieces-widgets/index.html) and
[apostrophe-video-widgets](../apostrophe-video-widgets/index.html).

All widgets have a [schema](../../tutorials/getting-started/schema-guide.html).
Many project-specific modules that extend this module consist entirely of an
`addFields` option and a `views/widget.html` file.

## Options

### `label`

The label of the widget, as seen in menus for adding widgets.

### `name`

The unique name of this type of widget, as seen in the `type` property in the database.
It will be singular if it displays one thing, like `apostrophe-video`,
and plural if it displays more than one thing, like `apostrophe-pieces`.
**By default, Apostrophe automatically removes `-widgets` from the name
of your module to set this option for you.** This is a good convention
but you may set this option instead if you wish.

### `addFields`, `removeFields`, `arrangeFields`, etc.

The standard options for building [schemas](../../tutorials/getting-started/schema-guide.html)
are accepted. The widget will present a modal dialog box allowing the user to edit
these fields. They are then available inside `widget.html` as properties of
`data.widget`.

## Important templates

You will need to supply a `views/widget.html` template for your module that
extends this module.

In `views/widget.html`, you can access any schema field as a property
of `data.widget`. You can also access options passed to the widget as
`data.options`.

## Widget players: the `play` method

If your widget requires JavaScript on the browser side, you will want
to define the browser-side singleton that manages this type of widget by
supplying a `public/js/always.js` file. In
that file you will override the `play` method, which receives a jQuery element containing
the appropriate div, the `data` for the widget, and the `options` that
were passed to the widget.

For example, here is the `public/js/always.js` file for the
[apostrophe-video-widgets](../apostrophe-video-widgets/index.html) module:

```javascript
apos.define('apostrophe-video-widgets', {
  extend: 'apostrophe-widgets',
  construct: function(self, options) {
    self.play = function($widget, data, options) {
      return apos.oembed.queryAndPlay($widget.find('[data-apos-video-player]'), data.video);
    };
  }
});
```

**ALWAYS USE `$widget.find`, NEVER $('selector....')` to create widget players.**
Otherwise your site will suffer from "please click refresh after you save"
syndrome. Otherwise known as "crappy site syndrome."

## Command line tasks

```
node app your-widget-module-name-here:list
```
Lists all of the places where this widget is used on the site. This is very useful if
you are debugging a change and need to test all of the different ways a widget has
been used, or are wondering if you can safely remove one.


## Methods
### output(*widget*, *options*)
Returns markup for the widget. Invoked by `widget.html` in the
`apostrophe-areas` module as it iterates over widgets in
an area. The default behavior is to render the template for the widget,
which is by default called `widget.html`, passing it `data.widget`
and `data.options`. The module is accessible as `data.manager`.
### load(*req*, *widgets*, *callback*)
Perform joins and any other necessary async
actions for our type of widget. Note that
an array of widgets is handled in a single call
as you can usually optimize this.

Override this to perform custom joins not
specified by your schema, talk to APIs, etc.
### sanitize(*req*, *input*, *callback*)
Sanitize the widget. Invoked when the user has edited a widget on the
browser side. By default, the `input` object is sanitized via the
`convert` method of `apostrophe-schemas`, creating a new `output` object
so that no information in `input` is blindly trusted.

The callback is invoked with `(null, output)`.
### filterForDataAttribute(*widget*)
Remove all properties of a widget that are the results of joins
(arrays or objects named with a leading `_`) for use in stuffing the
"data" attribute of the widget.

If we don't do a good job here we get 1MB+ of markup! So if you override
this, play nice. And seriously consider using an AJAX route to fetch
the data you need if you only need it under certain circumstances, such as
in response to a user click.
### filterOptionsForDataAttribute(*options*)
Filter options passed from the template to the widget before stuffing
them into JSON for use by the widget editor. Again, we discard all
properties that are the results of joins or otherwise dynamic
(arrays or objects named with a leading `_`).

If we don't do a good job here we get 1MB+ of markup. So if you override
this, play nice. And think about fetching the data you need only when
you truly need it, such as via an AJAX request in response to a click.
### pushAssets()
Push `always.js` to the browser at all times.
Push `user.js` to the browser when a user is logged in.
Push `editor.js` to the browser when a user is logged in.

Note that if your module also has files by these names
they are automatically pushed too, and they will always
come after these, allowing you to `extend` properly
when calling `apos.define`.
### pushDefineSingleton()
Define the browser-side singleton for this module, which exists
always in order to permit `play` methods.
### pageBeforeSend(*req*)
Before any page is sent to the browser, create the singleton.
### getCreateSingletonOptions(*req*)
Set the options to be passed to the browser-side singleton corresponding
to this module. By default they do not depend on `req`, but the availability
of that parameter allows subclasses to make distinctions based on permissions,
etc.

If a `browser` option was configured for the module its properties take precedence
over the default values passed on here for `name`, `label`, `action`
(the base URL of the module), `schema` and `contextualOnly`.
### list(*apos*, *argv*, *callback*)
Implement the command line task that lists all widgets of
this type found in the database:

`node app your-module-name-here-widgets:list`
## API Routes
### POST /modules/apostrophe-widgets/modal
A POST route to render `widgetEditor.html`. `data.label` and
`data.schema` are available to the template.

Commit message:

Latest doc build with an update or two of the forms tutorial

reference/apostrophe-widgets/index.md, after:

---
title: "apostrophe-widgets (module)"
layout: module
children:
  - browser-apostrophe-widgets
  - browser-apostrophe-widgets-editor
---
## Inherits from: [apostrophe-module](../apostrophe-module/index.html)
The base class for all modules that implement a widget, such as
[apostrophe-rich-text-widgets](../apostrophe-rich-text-widgets/index.html),
[apostrophe-pieces-widgets](../apostrophe-pieces-widgets/index.html) and
[apostrophe-video-widgets](../apostrophe-video-widgets/index.html).

All widgets have a [schema](../../tutorials/getting-started/schema-guide.html).
Many project-specific modules that extend this module consist entirely of an
`addFields` option and a `views/widget.html` file.

For more information see the [custom widgets tutorial](../../tutorials/getting-started/custom-widgets.html).

## Options

### `label`

The label of the widget, as seen in menus for adding widgets.

### `name`

The unique name of this type of widget, as seen in the `type` property in the database.
It will be singular if it displays one thing, like `apostrophe-video`,
and plural if it displays more than one thing, like `apostrophe-pieces`.
**By default, Apostrophe automatically removes `-widgets` from the name
of your module to set this option for you.** This is a good convention
but you may set this option instead if you wish.

### `scene`

If your widget wishes to use Apostrophe features like schemas
when interacting with *logged-out* users — for instance, to implement
forms conveniently — you can set the `scene` option to `user`. Any
page that contains the widget will then load the full javascript and stylesheet
assets normally reserved for logged-in users. Note that if a page
relies on AJAX calls to load more content later, the assets will not be
upgraded. So you may wish to set the `scene` option of the appropriate
subclass of `apostrophe-custom-pages` or `apostrophe-pieces-pages`, as well.

### `addFields`, `removeFields`, `arrangeFields`, etc.

The standard options for building [schemas](../../tutorials/getting-started/schema-guide.html)
are accepted. The widget will present a modal dialog box allowing the user to edit
these fields. They are then available inside `widget.html` as properties of
`data.widget`.

## Important templates

You will need to supply a `views/widget.html` template for your module that
extends this module.

In `views/widget.html`, you can access any schema field as a property
of `data.widget`. You can also access options passed to the widget as
`data.options`.

## More

If your widget requires JavaScript on the browser side, you will want
to define the browser-side singleton that manages this type of widget by
supplying a `public/js/always.js` file. In
that file you will override the `play` method, which receives a jQuery element containing
the appropriate div, the `data` for the widget, and the `options` that
were passed to the widget.

For example, here is the `public/js/always.js` file for the
[apostrophe-video-widgets](../apostrophe-video-widgets/index.html) module:

```javascript
apos.define('apostrophe-video-widgets', {
  extend: 'apostrophe-widgets',
  construct: function(self, options) {
    self.play = function($widget, data, options) {
      return apos.oembed.queryAndPlay($widget.find('[data-apos-video-player]'), data.video);
    };
  }
});
```

**ALWAYS USE `$widget.find`, NEVER $('selector....')` to create widget players.**
Otherwise your site will suffer from "please click refresh after you save"
syndrome. Otherwise known as "crappy site syndrome."

## Command line tasks

```
node app your-widget-module-name-here:list
```
Lists all of the places where this widget is used on the site. This is very useful if
you are debugging a change and need to test all of the different ways a widget has
been used, or are wondering if you can safely remove one.


## Methods
### output(*widget*, *options*)
Returns markup for the widget. Invoked by `widget.html` in the
`apostrophe-areas` module as it iterates over widgets in
an area. The default behavior is to render the template for the widget,
which is by default called `widget.html`, passing it `data.widget`
and `data.options`. The module is accessible as `data.manager`.
### load(*req*, *widgets*, *callback*)
Perform joins and any other necessary async
actions for our type of widget. Note that
an array of widgets is handled in a single call
as you can usually optimize this.

Override this to perform custom joins not
specified by your schema, talk to APIs, etc.

Also implements the `scene` convenience option
for upgrading assets delivered to the browser
to the full set of `user` assets.
### sanitize(*req*, *input*, *callback*)
Sanitize the widget. Invoked when the user has edited a widget on the
browser side. By default, the `input` object is sanitized via the
`convert` method of `apostrophe-schemas`, creating a new `output` object
so that no information in `input` is blindly trusted.

The callback is invoked with `(null, output)`.
### filterForDataAttribute(*widget*)
Remove all properties of a widget that are the results of joins
(arrays or objects named with a leading `_`) for use in stuffing the
"data" attribute of the widget.

If we don't do a good job here we get 1MB+ of markup! So if you override
this, play nice. And seriously consider using an AJAX route to fetch
the data you need if you only need it under certain circumstances, such as
in response to a user click.
### filterOptionsForDataAttribute(*options*)
Filter options passed from the template to the widget before stuffing
them into JSON for use by the widget editor. Again, we discard all
properties that are the results of joins or otherwise dynamic
(arrays or objects named with a leading `_`).

If we don't do a good job here we get 1MB+ of markup. So if you override
this, play nice. And think about fetching the data you need only when
you truly need it, such as via an AJAX request in response to a click.
### pushAssets()
Push `always.js` to the browser at all times.
Push `user.js` to the browser when a user is logged in.
Push `editor.js` to the browser when a user is logged in.

Note that if your module also has files by these names
they are automatically pushed too, and they will always
come after these, allowing you to `extend` properly
when calling `apos.define`.
### pushDefineSingleton()
Define the browser-side singleton for this module, which exists
always in order to permit `play` methods.
### pageBeforeSend(*req*)
Before any page is sent to the browser, create the singleton.
### getCreateSingletonOptions(*req*)
Set the options to be passed to the browser-side singleton corresponding
to this module. By default they do not depend on `req`, but the availability
of that parameter allows subclasses to make distinctions based on permissions,
etc.

If a `browser` option was configured for the module its properties take precedence
over the default values passed on here for `name`, `label`, `action`
(the base URL of the module), `schema` and `contextualOnly`.
### list(*apos*, *argv*, *callback*)
Implement the command line task that lists all widgets of
this type found in the database:

`node app your-module-name-here-widgets:list`
## API Routes
### POST /modules/apostrophe-widgets/modal
A POST route to render `widgetEditor.html`. `data.label` and
`data.schema` are available to the template.
