tutorials/configuration/i18n.md, before:

---
title: "Internationalization"
---

Enable i18n by adding the following in your `apostrophe-site` configuration in `app.js`:

```javascript
i18n: {
  // setup some locales - other locales default to defaultLocale silently
  locales:['en', 'de'],

  // you may alter a site wide default locale (optional, defaults to 'en')
  defaultLocale: 'de',

  // sets a custom cookie name to parse locale settings from  - defaults to apos_language (optional)
  cookie: 'yourcookiename',

  // whether to write new locale information to disk automatically - defaults to true (you will want to shut it off in production)
  // updateFiles: false
}
```

After doing this, you can internationalise text in your own templates with:

```
{{ __('A sample string') }}
```

The `__` local will take care of language detection and will spit out the appropriate string from the JSON files that will be located in the `locales` folder of your project by default. If you look in that folder, you'll see multiple JSON files with a two letter language abbreviation as a filename, for instance:

```
en.json
de.json
```

Those will contain all the necessary strings. By default, i18n will automatically put anything new it finds there. However, you can disable this behaviour by setting `updateFiles` to false.

Commit message:

link to apostrophe-localization module

tutorials/configuration/i18n.md, after:

---
title: "Internationalization"
---

## Internationalizing the user interface

Enable internationalization of the user interface by adding the following in your `apostrophe-site` configuration in `app.js`:

```javascript
i18n: {
  // setup some locales - other locales default to defaultLocale silently
  locales:['en', 'de'],

  // you may alter a site wide default locale (optional, defaults to 'en')
  defaultLocale: 'de',

  // sets a custom cookie name to parse locale settings from  - defaults to apos_language (optional)
  cookie: 'yourcookiename',

  // whether to write new locale information to disk automatically - defaults to true (you will want to shut it off in production)
  // updateFiles: false
}
```

After doing this, you can internationalise text in your own templates with:

```
{{ __('A sample string') }}
```

The `__` local will take care of language detection and will spit out the appropriate string from the JSON files that will be located in the `locales` folder of your project by default. If you look in that folder, you'll see multiple JSON files with a two letter language abbreviation as a filename, for instance:

```
en.json
de.json
```

Those will contain all the necessary strings. By default, i18n will automatically put anything new it finds there. However, you can disable this behaviour by setting `updateFiles` to false.

If you find text in our templates that is not internationalized, pull requests are welcome!

## Internationalizing and localizing your website's content

To localize or internationalize the content of your actual pages, you'll want to check out the optional [apostrophe-localization](https://www.npmjs.com/package/apostrophe-localization) module. See the documentation of that module for complete instructions.
