api-reference/api-doc-template.md, before:

---
title: Title of Document
---

## Header for page

Paragraph describing the domain we are documenting and any new conventions in this documentation.

### methodName

Brief description about what this method does

Any real meaty details

#### methodName(argument, [anotherArgument])

`argument` (type) Description of argument
`anotherArgument` (type) Start with caps, don't use period

Any additional details or things developers should know regarding this syntax

##### Example

```javascript
methodName(foo, 'bar')
```

##### anotherArgument

###### property of anotherArgument (type)

Description of the property

Syntax example

```javascript
[ 'array', 'of', 'values']
```

###### anotherProperty of anotherArgument (type)

Description of another property



#### methodName(argument) *alternate syntax*

*argument*: (type) description of argument, including any required properties

Description on how this differs from default syntax, why you might use it, and how the above details fit into this use.

Commit message:

Warning about changes to RSS widget

api-reference/api-doc-template.md, after:

---
title: Title of Document
---

# Header for page

Paragraph describing the domain we are documenting and any new conventions in this documentation.

## Subheader for group of related methods

Paragraph about this group of related methods.

### methodName

Brief description about what this method does

Any real meaty details

#### methodName(argument, [anotherArgument])

`argument` (type) Description of argument
`anotherArgument` (type) Start with caps, don't use period

Any additional details or things developers should know regarding this syntax

##### Example

```javascript
methodName(foo, 'bar')
```

##### anotherArgument

###### property of anotherArgument (type)

Description of the property

Syntax example

```javascript
[ 'array', 'of', 'values']
```

###### anotherProperty of anotherArgument (type)

Description of another property



#### methodName(argument) *alternate syntax*

*argument*: (type) description of argument, including any required properties

Description on how this differs from default syntax, why you might use it, and how the above details fit into this use.
