tutorials/advanced-development/advanced-pieces-topics/adding-fields-to-all-pieces.md, before:

---
title: "Adding fields to all pieces"
layout: tutorial
---

Apostrophe's schemas are a powerful way to add fields to any type of piece or page. But sometimes you'll have a field you want to add to every type of piece. Here's how to do that.

## Adding a field to all pieces

As explained in the tutorials, the [apostrophe-pieces](/modules/apostrophe-pieces/README.md) module is a great way to create reusable content that appears all over the site — both on [apostrophe-pieces-pages](/modules/apostrophe-pieces-pages/README.md) and in [apostrophe-pieces-widgets](/modules/apostrophe-pieces-widgets/README.md).

We've seen how we can add fields to these by using the `addFields` option when configuring each module. But sometimes we want to add a field to `every` type of piece. We can do that by configuring the `apostrophe-pieces` module itself.

*Any configuration we set for `apostrophe-pieces` becomes part of the configuration for all of the modules that extend it.*

Our first idea might be to do this in `app.js`:

```javascript
// THIS WON'T WORK

modules: {
  'apostrophe-pieces': {
    addFields: [
      {
        type: 'string',
        name: 'author',
        label: 'Author'
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

**This won't quite work.** The reason is that the `addFields` option set for each subclass overrides it.

Another problem is that we wind up with "Pieces" on the admin bar. If we configure a module in `app.js`, Apostrophe assumes we want to use that module, not just extend it to create new modules.

So instead, we'll write a `beforeConstruct` function in `lib/modules/apostrophe-pieces/index.js`. The great thing about `beforeConstruct` is that it is *called for the subclasses first*. That means that by the time it is called for us, *all the fields for the subclass are already in `addFields`*. We can simply prepend our own:


{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="lib/modules/apostrophe-pieces/index.js" %}
```javascript
// THIS WILL WORK!

module.exports = {

  beforeConstruct: function(self, options) {
    options.addFields = [
      {
        type: 'string',
        name: 'author',
        label: 'Author'
      }
    ].concat(options.addFields || [])
  }
}
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

### Making exceptions

If one of your subclasses of pieces doesn't need the `author` field, just use the `removeFields` option in that module.

Commit message:

Adds note about inability to remove required fields

tutorials/advanced-development/advanced-pieces-topics/adding-fields-to-all-pieces.md, after:

---
title: "Adding fields to all pieces"
layout: tutorial
---

Apostrophe's schemas are a powerful way to add fields to any type of piece or page. But sometimes you'll have a field you want to add to every type of piece. Here's how to do that.

## Adding a field to all pieces

As explained in the tutorials, the [apostrophe-pieces](/modules/apostrophe-pieces/README.md) module is a great way to create reusable content that appears all over the site — both on [apostrophe-pieces-pages](/modules/apostrophe-pieces-pages/README.md) and in [apostrophe-pieces-widgets](/modules/apostrophe-pieces-widgets/README.md).

We've seen how we can add fields to these by using the `addFields` option when configuring each module. But sometimes we want to add a field to `every` type of piece. We can do that by configuring the `apostrophe-pieces` module itself.

*Any configuration we set for `apostrophe-pieces` becomes part of the configuration for all of the modules that extend it.*

Our first idea might be to do this in `app.js`:

```javascript
// THIS WON'T WORK

modules: {
  'apostrophe-pieces': {
    addFields: [
      {
        type: 'string',
        name: 'author',
        label: 'Author'
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

**This won't quite work.** The reason is that the `addFields` option set for each subclass overrides it.

Another problem is that we wind up with "Pieces" on the admin bar. If we configure a module in `app.js`, Apostrophe assumes we want to use that module, not just extend it to create new modules.

So instead, we'll write a `beforeConstruct` function in `lib/modules/apostrophe-pieces/index.js`. The great thing about `beforeConstruct` is that it is *called for the subclasses first*. That means that by the time it is called for us, *all the fields for the subclass are already in `addFields`*. We can simply prepend our own:


{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="lib/modules/apostrophe-pieces/index.js" %}
```javascript
// THIS WILL WORK!

module.exports = {

  beforeConstruct: function(self, options) {
    options.addFields = [
      {
        type: 'string',
        name: 'author',
        label: 'Author'
      }
    ].concat(options.addFields || [])
  }
}
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

### Making exceptions

If one of your subclasses of pieces doesn't need the `author` field, just use the `removeFields` option in that module. Required fields, including `title` and `slug` (for pieces), cannot be removed, though their [field properties](/other/field-properties.md) can be changed.
