docs/README.md, before:

---
title: 'Docs Home'
---

# ApostropheCMS Documentation

![ApostropheCMS as an editor](../images/assets/ezgif.com-video-to-gif.gif)

## Tutorials

Our tutorials cover everything you need to know to get started as an Apostrophe developer. Everyone should start here. Our tutorials are progressive, so you can learn as you go. [The Getting Started tutorial](/getting-started/setting-up-your-environment.md) is a good place to get started.

### Getting Started

[The "getting started" tutorials](/getting-started/setting-up-your-environment.md) are written for developers who are new to Apostrophe. They will walk you through the process of getting your environment set up and creating a basic website.

### Core Concepts

[The Core Concepts tutorials](/core-concepts/technical-overview.md) go through each feature of Apostrophe that you need to understand to build a webite.  They will help you get more comfortable with Apostrophe and node.js.

Practical examples of these concepts are illustrated in the [Open Musuem project, a fully featured Apostrophe site](https://github.com/apostrophecms/apostrophe-open-museum). [You can access the code](https://github.com/apostrophecms/apostrophe-open-museum) or [try a live demo](http://demo.apostrophecms.com).


### Advanced Development

[Advanced Development](/advanced-topics) dives deepers into the features of Apostrophe and the concepts behind it to provide the knowledge and tools you need to build dynamic, responsive sites.

## DevOps

[DevOps](/devops) covers all you need to know to deploy and configure Apostrophe for a production environment.

### HOWTOs

[The HOWTOs](/howtos) cover miscellaneous topics including development, configuration, and customization.

### What's the right level for me?

If you're brand new to Apostrophe, go to [Getting Started](/getting-started/setting-up-your-environment.md) first to learn how to deploy Apostrophe locally for development and testing, and how to create a project. Once you have Apostrophe set up, [Core Concepts](/core-concepts/README.md) will help you get a good grasp on Apostrophe's tools. After that, you can dig deeper with [Advanced Development](/advanced-topics) or get ready for production with [DevOps](/devops).

## Additional Topics

After you learn the ins and outs of Apostrophe, you'll still have questions, and need more information or references for various Apostrophe components. The remaining sections include the reference and glossary sections.

### Module Reference

Our module reference provides complete coverage of Apostrophe's modules and their related object types. Each module provides a particular feature, often including both front and back end code.

### Glossary

Working with Apostrophe, there are a lot of a terms and ideas to keep track of. If you need a quick reference or come across an unfamiliar term, check the glossary for a detailed explanation. [Read the Glossary](/reference/glossary.md)

## Core Server

The core `apos` object on the server orchestrates the whole dance. [Learn about the core](/reference/core-server.md)

## Core Browser

The browser has an `apos` object too. tying it all together. [Learn about the core](/reference/core-browser.md)

Commit message:

Adds A3 note and sidebar option

docs/README.md, after:

---
title: 'Docs Home'
---

::: note
If starting a new project, we recommend using the latest major version, Apostrophe 3. <a href="https://v3.docs.apostrophecms.org/">See the A3 documentation for more information.</a>
:::


# ApostropheCMS Documentation

![ApostropheCMS as an editor](../images/assets/ezgif.com-video-to-gif.gif)

## Tutorials

Our tutorials cover everything you need to know to get started as an Apostrophe developer. Everyone should start here. Our tutorials are progressive, so you can learn as you go. [The Getting Started tutorial](/getting-started/setting-up-your-environment.md) is a good place to get started.

### Getting Started

[The "getting started" tutorials](/getting-started/setting-up-your-environment.md) are written for developers who are new to Apostrophe. They will walk you through the process of getting your environment set up and creating a basic website.

### Core Concepts

[The Core Concepts tutorials](/core-concepts/technical-overview.md) go through each feature of Apostrophe that you need to understand to build a webite.  They will help you get more comfortable with Apostrophe and node.js.

Practical examples of these concepts are illustrated in the [Open Musuem project, a fully featured Apostrophe site](https://github.com/apostrophecms/apostrophe-open-museum). [You can access the code](https://github.com/apostrophecms/apostrophe-open-museum) or [try a live demo](http://demo.apostrophecms.com).


### Advanced Development

[Advanced Development](/advanced-topics) dives deepers into the features of Apostrophe and the concepts behind it to provide the knowledge and tools you need to build dynamic, responsive sites.

## DevOps

[DevOps](/devops) covers all you need to know to deploy and configure Apostrophe for a production environment.

### HOWTOs

[The HOWTOs](/howtos) cover miscellaneous topics including development, configuration, and customization.

### What's the right level for me?

If you're brand new to Apostrophe, go to [Getting Started](/getting-started/setting-up-your-environment.md) first to learn how to deploy Apostrophe locally for development and testing, and how to create a project. Once you have Apostrophe set up, [Core Concepts](/core-concepts/README.md) will help you get a good grasp on Apostrophe's tools. After that, you can dig deeper with [Advanced Development](/advanced-topics) or get ready for production with [DevOps](/devops).

## Additional Topics

After you learn the ins and outs of Apostrophe, you'll still have questions, and need more information or references for various Apostrophe components. The remaining sections include the reference and glossary sections.

### Module Reference

Our module reference provides complete coverage of Apostrophe's modules and their related object types. Each module provides a particular feature, often including both front and back end code.

### Glossary

Working with Apostrophe, there are a lot of a terms and ideas to keep track of. If you need a quick reference or come across an unfamiliar term, check the glossary for a detailed explanation. [Read the Glossary](/reference/glossary.md)

## Core Server

The core `apos` object on the server orchestrates the whole dance. [Learn about the core](/reference/core-server.md)

## Core Browser

The browser has an `apos` object too. tying it all together. [Learn about the core](/reference/core-browser.md)
