docs/modules/apostrophe-areas/browser-apostrophe-areas.md, before:

---
title: "apostrophe-areas (browser)"
layout: reference
namespace: browser
---

## Methods
### setWidgetManager(*name*, *manager*)
Called by subclasses of `apostrophe-widgets`. The `manager`
object must provide, at a minimum, `setData`, `getData` and
`play` methods. See `always.js` and `user.js` in the
`apostrophe-widgets` module for examples. Normally you
will extend `apostrophe-widgets` and this will be invoked
for you.
### getWidgetManager(*name*)
Fetch the manager object for the given widget type name.
### enablePlayers()
Ensure that the `play` method of the manager for every
widget is invoked, if it exists, every time new widgets are
present in the page. Adds a handler for the `enhance`
Apostrophe event, which is triggered both on page load and
any time new content is rendered into the page during editing.
The `play` method will receive the widget's jQuery element,
the widget's data and the configured options for that
widget type.
### getWidgetOptions(*$widget*)
Fetch the configured options for the specified
`$widget`, a jQuery element which should be markup representing
a widget, with a `data-options` JSON attribute.
### getWidgetData(*$widget*)
Fetch the data associated with the specified `$widget`,
a jQuery element which should be markup representing a
widget. The `data-apos-widget` attribute is used to identify
the widget type, and the `getData` method of the manager for
that widget type is invoked to get the data.
### enhanceAddContent()
When a `[data-apos-add-content]` button is clicked, toggle the `apos-active` class
on the closest ancestor with `[data-apos-dropdown]`, and also the closest
ancestor with `.apos-area-controls`.
### enhanceControlsHover(*sel*)
Handles the hovering of widgets in the specified selector or jQuery object
and reveals only the controls on the directly hovered widget, not the parent wrapper widget
### getTemplates(*callback*)

### fromTemplate(*sel*)

### enableCkeditor()

### enableOnEnhance()

### enableAll(*sel*)
Enable the areas in the specified selector or jQuery object to be edited.
If sel is falsy all areas currently in the body are made editable
### register(*docId*, *dotPath*, *editor*)

### enableShift()

### getWidgetOptions(*$widget*)
Helper functions for getting widget data and options that don't depend
on the context of a specific area editor
Get the options that apply to the widget in its current context
### getAreaOptions(*$area*)

### getWidgetData(*$widget*)

### setWidgetData(*$widget*, *data*)

### getEditors()
Return an array of all area editor objects
(subclasses of apostrophe-areas-editor) which
are currently visible.
### saveAllIfNeeded(*callback*)
Gives all area editors a chance to save changes,
if they need to, before invoking the callback.

Commit message:

generated docs, also fixed layout for s3 tutorial

docs/modules/apostrophe-areas/browser-apostrophe-areas.md, after:

---
title: "apostrophe-areas (browser)"
layout: reference
namespace: browser
---

## Methods
### setWidgetManager(*name*, *manager*)
Called by subclasses of `apostrophe-widgets`. The `manager`
object must provide, at a minimum, `setData`, `getData` and
`play` methods. See `always.js` and `user.js` in the
`apostrophe-widgets` module for examples. Normally you
will extend `apostrophe-widgets` and this will be invoked
for you.
### getWidgetManager(*name*)
Fetch the manager object for the given widget type name.
### enablePlayers()
Ensure that the `play` method of the manager for every
widget is invoked, if it exists, every time new widgets are
present in the page. Adds a handler for the `enhance`
Apostrophe event, which is triggered both on page load and
any time new content is rendered into the page during editing.
The `play` method will receive the widget's jQuery element,
the widget's data and the configured options for that
widget type.
### getWidgetOptions(*$widget*)
Fetch the configured options for the specified
`$widget`, a jQuery element which should be markup representing
a widget, with a `data-options` JSON attribute.
### getWidgetData(*$widget*)
Fetch the data associated with the specified `$widget`,
a jQuery element which should be markup representing a
widget. The `data-apos-widget` attribute is used to identify
the widget type, and the `getData` method of the manager for
that widget type is invoked to get the data.
### enhanceAddContent()
When a `[data-apos-add-content]` button is clicked, toggle the `apos-active` class
on the closest ancestor with `[data-apos-dropdown]`, and also the closest
ancestor with `.apos-area-controls`.
### enhanceControlsHover(*sel*)
Handles the hovering of widgets in the specified selector or jQuery object
and reveals only the controls on the directly hovered widget, not the parent wrapper widget
### getTemplates(*callback*)

### fromTemplate(*sel*)

### enableCkeditor()

### enableOnEnhance()

### enableAll(*sel*)
Enable the areas in the specified selector or jQuery object to be edited.
If sel is falsy all areas currently in the body are made editable
### register(*docId*, *dotPath*, *editor*)

### enableShift()

### getWidgetOptions(*$widget*)
Helper functions for getting widget data and options that don't depend
on the context of a specific area editor
Get the options that apply to the widget in its current context
### getAreaOptions(*$area*)

### getWidgetData(*$widget*)

### setWidgetData(*$widget*, *data*)

### getEditors()
Return an array of all area editor objects
(subclasses of apostrophe-areas-editor) which
are currently visible.
### saveAllIfNeeded(*sync*, *callback*)
Gives all area editors a chance to save changes,
if they need to, before invoking the callback.

Both the sync flag and the callback may be
omitted entirely. The default is asynchronous.

This method is ideal in situations where
you wish to be sure everything has been saved
before transitioning to a UI such as a commit dialog box
that displays what has changed, etc.
### saveAllIfNeededAndUnlock()
Similar to `saveAllIfNeeded`, this method is
invoked on a `beforeunload` event, when the user
navigates away or closes the tab. However this method
has no callback, makes only one synchronous API call
to complete all of the work to maximize
the chances of success when called during the
`beforeunload` event, and also unlocks any docs locked
by the current html page as part of that one API call.
### enableUnload()
