---
title: Editing Page Templates
layout: tutorial
---

# Editing page templates

This tutorial will introduce you to the `apostrophe-pages` and `apostrophe-templates` modules. It will also cover the basics of editing page templates in [Nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/), and show you how to add a hero section to the Home page.

But first, two quick questions we should answer... what the heck is an Apostrophe module? And what's this `app.js` file all about?

## About `app.js`

`app.js` is Apostrophe's main configuration file. This is the file that fires up Apostrophe with a given configuration, and is where you can specify what modules you want to be present in your project. As you add them, you also configure them by providing options via an object.

Some modules are always a part of Apostrophe whether you configure them or not. You will create more to meet the needs of your project.

## `lib/modules`: modules in Apostrophe

Apostrophe is a modular content management system. Each meaningful component is broken into its own module, which can then be interacted with or subclassed \(extended\) by other modules in the system. Under the hood, modules are powered by [moog](https://github.com/punkave/moog) and [moog-require](https://github.com/punkave/moog-require), but you don't have to understand that right away to build a great website.

The `lib/modules` folder of your project is where modules created for your own project live. And it is also where you can "implicitly subclass" \(i.e. configure or improve upon\) Apostrophe's own modules, whether part of the apostrophe npm module's core or packaged in separate npm modules.

We've already seen two modules that are extended in your test project's `lib/modules` folder, `apostrophe-assets` and `apostrophe-pages`. `apostrophe-assets` gets some custom [LESS CSS](http://lesscss.org/features/) files, while `apostrophe-pages` contains page templates.

**Apostrophe modules and npm modules are not the same thing.** One npm module might package several Apostrophe modules that are maintained together as a "bundle." You'll see this later when you install the `apostrophe-blog` npm module.

### Modifying page templates

Now that we know what a module is, let's take a look in the `apostrophe-pages` module directory of your project \(`lib/modules/apostrophe-pages`\). Here you'll find a `/views` directory containing our `.html` template files. Within the `/pages` subdirectory you'll find our existing Home page template, `home.html`. Right now, our site only has this template so let's add a new one.

### Adding a New Page Template

Let's add a `default` template for new pages.

The first step is to add configuration for the `apostrophe-pages` module in `app.js`. Add the `apostrophe-pages` block at the top of the `modules` section of the `app.js` file:

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="app.js" %}
```javascript
    // This configures our default page template
    'apostrophe-pages': {
      types: [
        {
          name: 'default',
          label: 'Default'
        },
        {
          name: 'home',
          label: 'Home'
        },
      ]
    },
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

{% hint style='info' %}
If you are not using `nodemon`, you will need to restart the node app when you make most code changes. In the terminal window, press control-C, then type: `node app.js`

This is because every node application is a webserver in its own right. Unlike PHP applications, node apps "stay alive" indefinitely, handling many page requests asynchronously for better performance. Later, [in production](../intermediate/deployment.md), we'll use a more robust webserver as a "frontend proxy" to help handle the load.

If you find this annoying in development, there's a simple fix: use [nodemon](https://npmjs.org/package/nodemon). A reasonable `nodemon` configuration is provided with projects generated by `apostrophe-cli`.
{% endhint %}

### Creating and Extending Page Templates

We've configured the two page types we want for our site. But if you try to add a new page now via the "Page Menu" \(lower left corner\) and give it the "default" page type, you'll get an error.

Apostrophe is looking for the template file `lib/modules/apostrophe-pages/views/pages/default.html`. So open up your editor and create that file.

Now let's take a look at how to add content to the page.

With an empty `default.html`, we don't get much; not even a page title. But we can get quite a bit for free just by extending a layout template.

[Nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) allows you to extend another template, with the option of overriding `blocks` to update or change the template. Add this to the top of `default.html`:

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="lib/modules/apostrophe-pages/views/pages/default.html" %}
```markup
{% extends "layout.html" %}
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

Projects created with our CLI from the `apostrophe-boilerplate` project ship with a simple `layout.html` file in the top-level `views/` folder, where templates are found if they are not present in a specific module. If you peek in `layout.html`, you'll find several examples of "blocks" you can override, notably `main`:

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="views/layout.html" %}
```markup
{% block beforeMain %}
  {#
    We recommend you use the beforeMain block for global page components
    like headers or navigation.
  #}
{% endblock %}

{% block main %}
  {#
    Usually, your page templates in the apostrophe-pages module will override
    this block. It is safe to assume this is where your page-specific content
    should go.
  #}
{% endblock %}

{% block afterMain %}
  {#
    This would be a great place to put a global footer.
  #}
{% endblock %}
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

Blocks are another great Nunjucks feature; they are defined in files you extend, and you can override them in your page template just by using the `block` keyword.

So using these blocks on your pages means everything output by your page template will be inserted into the layout in the appropriate spot.

There is also a `title` block which you can extend to set the page title, although the default `layout.html` makes a good guess based on the current piece or page.

{% hint style='info' %}
Even `layout.html` extends another file. For a typical page load, it extends `outerLayout.html`, which lives in the `lib/modules/apostrophe-templates/views` folder. That file extends the `outerLayoutBase.html` file that ships with Apostrophe. Most of the time you won't need to look there, but it does contain additional blocks you can override, notably `extraHead` which is perfect for adding `link` elements to the `head` element and so on.
{% endhint %}

### Using blocks to override parts of the layout

Now that we've extended `layout.html` in `default.html`, we can override the `beforeMain` block. Let's add a hero section to the top of the page:

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="lib/modules/apostrophe-pages/views/default.html" %}
```markup
{% block beforeMain %}
  <div class="block hero">
    <div class="inner">
      <div class="hero-text">
        <h4>Welcome to my first Apostrophe site!</h4>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
{% endblock %}
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

Because we extended the layout, we can avoid duplicating a lot of markup.

### Including, importing and extending files from many modules

Sometimes you'll want to write Nunjucks macros, include files, or extensible layouts that are used by many different Apostrophe modules. For convenience, you can put these "global" templates in the top-level `views/` folder of your project. Any template not found in the current module will be located there as a "fallback." _In older projects, this won't work unless you enable it. See_ `app.js` _in the_ [_apostrophe-boilerplate_](https://github.com/punkave/apostrophe-boilerplate) _project._

**But what about editable content?** Good question! That's the next topic.

