docs/core-concepts/working-with-templates/responsive-images.md, before:

# Responsive images

The `apostrophe-images-widgets` module provides a powerful way to select and display images on the site, including the ability to manually crop images, or rely on CSS to carry out various automatic responsive cropping approaches.

However, this dynamic behavior comes at the expense of not rendering images as `<img>` tags, but rather as CSS based background images. If you're looking to use the `srcset` attribute, you can do so by loading a custom widget.

## An image widget that supports `srcset`

The `srcset` attribute was introduced to give developers a way to declaratively specify which sizes of an image are available on the server. It is coupled with the `sizes` attribute that lets you specify how much space the image if supposed to take up in the browser. Eric Portis has an excellent [explanation](https://ericportis.com/posts/2014/srcset-sizes/) on his blog.

Apostrophe lets use make use of this browser feature through the `apos.images.srcset` template helper. In the following example, you'll write a simple custom widget that renders an image with both a `srcset` and a `sizes` attribute.

::: tip NOTE
This example assumes that you know how to load and work with custom widgets. If you're unsure about that, please refer to the [custom widgets tutorial](/core-concepts/editable-content-on-pages/custom-widgets.md).
:::

With this example widget, it's up to the developer to specify the `sizesAttr` option (which is what we use for the `sizes` attribute on the image). So when you load the widget into an area or singleton, follow this example:

```django
{{ apos.area(data.page, 'content', {
  widgets: {
    'image': {
      sizesAttr: '(min-width: 1024px) 50vw, 100vw'
    }
  }
}) }}
```

Now for the actual widget code:


```javascript
// lib/modules/my-image-widget/index.js
module.exports = {
  extend: 'apostrophe-widgets',
  label: 'Image',
  addFields: [
    {
      name: '_image',
      type: 'joinByOne',
      withType: 'apostrophe-image',
      label: 'Image',
      required: true,
      idField: 'imageId',
      filters: {
        projection: {
          attachment: true,
          description: true,
          title: true
        }
      }
    }
  ]
};
```


```django
{# lib/modules/my-image-widget/views/widget.html #}
<img src="{{ apos.attachments.url(data.widget._image.attachment, { size: data.options.size or 'full' }) }}" srcset="{{ apos.images.srcset(data.widget._image.attachment) }}" sizes="{{ data.options.sizesAttr or '100vw' }}" alt="{{ data.widget._image.description or data.widget._image.title }}">
```


## Responsive images can meet mobile design needs

Rather than scaling all of the images to have the same height while displaying at their full width, it can be more appropriate to allow CSS to crop the image, creating a "vignette" effect in which the design doesn't require that users see the entire image — they just need a background to fill, for instance, the top half the screen on their device of choice, whether it is a smartphone or a desktop browser. This isn't hard to achieve with the `background-size: cover` CSS property and the `noHeight` option of the `apostrophe-images` widget:

```less
// In your own .less file
.my-marquee .apos-slideshow-item
{
  background-size: cover;
  max-width: 100%;
  height: 50vh;
}
```

```django
{# in your own page template #}

<div class="my-marquee">
  {{ apos.area(data.page, 'marquee', {
    widgets: {
      'apostrophe-images': {
        size: 'full',
        noHeight: true
      }
    }
  }) }}
</div>
```

::: tip
Normally, Apostrophe ensures that all images in a single widget, i.e. a single slideshow, are displayed at the same height and allows their widths to vary. This is done to prevent the rest of the page from "jumping" every time the slideshow advances to a slide with a different aspect ratio. This is great until what you really want is responsive CSS cropping. The `noHeight` option disables this behavior, making you responsible for achieving a consistent height via your CSS.
:::

## Everything was great until the boss lost his head

Unfortunately, this strategy has a key flaw. Everything is great until the marquee is a photo of the boss, and you can't see his or her face on a smartphone.

This problem can be solved with the `focalPoint` option, which gives the user the ability to choose a "focal point" within the image that is guaranteed to be visible:

```django
{# in your own page template #}

<div class="my-marquee">
  {{ apos.area(data.page, 'marquee', {
    widgets: {
      'apostrophe-images': {
        size: 'full',
        noHeight: true,
        focalPoint: true
      }
    }
  }) }}
</div>
```

Users will now see an "eyeball" icon in the list of images they have selected for the widget. Clicking that icon opens a dialog box in which they can click to choose a focal point.

## What the focal point actually does

The focal point, which is stored as a percentage on the X and Y axes, is output as a `background-position` CSS property. Note that this only makes a difference in practice if `background-size: contain` is not in effect and the `noHeight` option has been passed to the widget.

::: tip
If you have overridden `widget.html` for the `apostrophe-images` widget, take a look at the latest version of `widgetBase.html` to see how this can be applied in your override.
:::

## Other ways to use the focal point data

This is great if you are rendering the widget normally with `apos.area` or `apos.singleton`, but what if you are fetching the images directly, for instance with `apos.images.first`?

Here's an example of how you can combine that technique with a focal point:

```django
{% set image = apos.images.first(data.page.main) %}
{% if image %}
  <div class="focal-point-test" style="
    {%- if apos.attachments.hasFocalPoint(image) -%}
      background-position: {{ apos.attachments.focalPointToBackgroundPosition(image) }};
    {%- endif -%}
    background-image: url({{ apos.attachments.url(image, { size: 'one-half' }) }})"></div>
{% endif %}
```

## Accessing the the focal point data directly

::: v-pre
If you are not setting `background-position` and wish to use the focal point percentages in another way, you can call `{{ apos.attachments.getFocalPoint(image) }}` to obtain an object with `x` and `y` properties. These numbers will be percentages of the width and height of the image, as cropped by the user.
:::

## Focal points for freestanding attachments

Freestanding attachment schema fields — those that are part of your own piece types, and thus never in Apostrophe's main "images" media library — can also have focal points. You can enable that by setting the `focalPoint: true` option for the schema field in question.

## Alternatives

Sometimes even the focal point strategy doesn't give end users enough confidence that critical elements won't be cropped out.

One alternative is to provide two `apostrophe-images` widgets, which can be manually cropped for two fixed aspect ratios, and use CSS media queries to decide which one appears on a given device.

Commit message:

Information about srcset
Added information about srcset helper

docs/core-concepts/working-with-templates/responsive-images.md, after:

# Responsive images

The `apostrophe-images-widgets` module provides a powerful way to select and display images on the site, including the ability to manually crop images, or rely on CSS to carry out various automatic responsive cropping approaches.

However, this dynamic behavior comes at the expense of not rendering images as `<img>` tags, but rather as CSS based background images. If you're looking to use the `srcset` attribute, you can do so by loading a custom widget.

## An image widget that supports `srcset`

The `srcset` attribute was introduced to give developers a way to declaratively specify which sizes of an image are available on the server. It is coupled with the `sizes` attribute that lets you specify how much space the image if supposed to take up in the browser. Eric Portis has an excellent [explanation](https://ericportis.com/posts/2014/srcset-sizes/) on his blog.

Apostrophe lets use make use of this browser feature through the `apos.images.srcset` template helper. In the following example, you'll write a simple custom widget that renders an image with both a `srcset` and a `sizes` attribute.

::: tip NOTE
This example assumes that you know how to load and work with custom widgets. If you're unsure about that, please refer to the [custom widgets tutorial](/core-concepts/editable-content-on-pages/custom-widgets.md).
:::

With this example widget, it's up to the developer to specify the `sizesAttr` option (which is what we use for the `sizes` attribute on the image). So when you load the widget into an area or singleton, follow this example:

```django
{{ apos.area(data.page, 'content', {
  widgets: {
    'image': {
      sizesAttr: '(min-width: 1024px) 50vw, 100vw'
    }
  }
}) }}
```

Now for the actual widget code:


```javascript
// lib/modules/my-image-widget/index.js
module.exports = {
  extend: 'apostrophe-widgets',
  label: 'Image',
  addFields: [
    {
      name: '_image',
      type: 'joinByOne',
      withType: 'apostrophe-image',
      label: 'Image',
      required: true,
      idField: 'imageId',
      filters: {
        projection: {
          attachment: true,
          description: true,
          title: true
        }
      }
    }
  ]
};
```


```django
{# lib/modules/my-image-widget/views/widget.html #}
  <img 
    src="{{ apos.attachments.url(data.widget._image.attachment, { size: data.options.size or 'full' }) }}" 
    srcset="{{ apos.images.srcset(data.widget._image.attachment) }}" 
    sizes="{{ data.options.sizesAttr or '100vw' }}" 
    alt="{{ data.widget._image.description or data.widget._image.title }}"
   >
```

The `apos.images.srcset` helper even offers cropping. If you add `relationship` you can use `apostrophe-attachment` cropping functions effectively.

`srcset="{{ apos.images.srcset(data.widget._image.attachment, relationship) }}"`

Images now have coordinates attached to their url's and this is really useful for responsive images.


## Responsive images can meet mobile design needs

Rather than scaling all of the images to have the same height while displaying at their full width, it can be more appropriate to allow CSS to crop the image, creating a "vignette" effect in which the design doesn't require that users see the entire image — they just need a background to fill, for instance, the top half the screen on their device of choice, whether it is a smartphone or a desktop browser. This isn't hard to achieve with the `background-size: cover` CSS property and the `noHeight` option of the `apostrophe-images` widget:

```less
// In your own .less file
.my-marquee .apos-slideshow-item
{
  background-size: cover;
  max-width: 100%;
  height: 50vh;
}
```

```django
{# in your own page template #}

<div class="my-marquee">
  {{ apos.area(data.page, 'marquee', {
    widgets: {
      'apostrophe-images': {
        size: 'full',
        noHeight: true
      }
    }
  }) }}
</div>
```

::: tip
Normally, Apostrophe ensures that all images in a single widget, i.e. a single slideshow, are displayed at the same height and allows their widths to vary. This is done to prevent the rest of the page from "jumping" every time the slideshow advances to a slide with a different aspect ratio. This is great until what you really want is responsive CSS cropping. The `noHeight` option disables this behavior, making you responsible for achieving a consistent height via your CSS.
:::

## Everything was great until the boss lost his head

Unfortunately, this strategy has a key flaw. Everything is great until the marquee is a photo of the boss, and you can't see his or her face on a smartphone.

This problem can be solved with the `focalPoint` option, which gives the user the ability to choose a "focal point" within the image that is guaranteed to be visible:

```django
{# in your own page template #}

<div class="my-marquee">
  {{ apos.area(data.page, 'marquee', {
    widgets: {
      'apostrophe-images': {
        size: 'full',
        noHeight: true,
        focalPoint: true
      }
    }
  }) }}
</div>
```

Users will now see an "eyeball" icon in the list of images they have selected for the widget. Clicking that icon opens a dialog box in which they can click to choose a focal point.

## What the focal point actually does

The focal point, which is stored as a percentage on the X and Y axes, is output as a `background-position` CSS property. Note that this only makes a difference in practice if `background-size: contain` is not in effect and the `noHeight` option has been passed to the widget.

::: tip
If you have overridden `widget.html` for the `apostrophe-images` widget, take a look at the latest version of `widgetBase.html` to see how this can be applied in your override.
:::

## Other ways to use the focal point data

This is great if you are rendering the widget normally with `apos.area` or `apos.singleton`, but what if you are fetching the images directly, for instance with `apos.images.first`?

Here's an example of how you can combine that technique with a focal point:

```django
{% set image = apos.images.first(data.page.main) %}
{% if image %}
  <div class="focal-point-test" style="
    {%- if apos.attachments.hasFocalPoint(image) -%}
      background-position: {{ apos.attachments.focalPointToBackgroundPosition(image) }};
    {%- endif -%}
    background-image: url({{ apos.attachments.url(image, { size: 'one-half' }) }})"></div>
{% endif %}
```

You should decide if you want to show you image as `background-image` or in an img tag with `src` and `srcset`.


## Accessing the the focal point data directly

::: v-pre
If you are not setting `background-position` and wish to use the focal point percentages in another way, you can call `{{ apos.attachments.getFocalPoint(image) }}` to obtain an object with `x` and `y` properties. These numbers will be percentages of the width and height of the image, as cropped by the user.
:::

## Focal points for freestanding attachments

Freestanding attachment schema fields — those that are part of your own piece types, and thus never in Apostrophe's main "images" media library — can also have focal points. You can enable that by setting the `focalPoint: true` option for the schema field in question.

## Alternatives

Sometimes even the focal point strategy doesn't give end users enough confidence that critical elements won't be cropped out.

One alternative is to provide two `apostrophe-images` widgets, which can be manually cropped for two fixed aspect ratios, and use CSS media queries to decide which one appears on a given device.
